# Pic16BProject

Abstract:
Every person will be interested in housing prices at least once in their life. There are many reasons for owning a house: having a place to live, using it as a rental property for income, or other potential reasons. My teammates and I want to see throughout the years, which geographic areas in California (or on a smaller scale) are the most dynamic in pricing and what the reasons are behind it. What are the social, economic, political sensitivities behind this? I believe we can understand and visualize the data from many angles. One very interesting angle will be how covid has influenced the housing market in California. This project can potentially both help predict housing price in new or existing neighborhoods and identify structural inequalities.

Planned Deliverables:
What is “Full success” and what is “Partial success”?

I consider “Full success” as our group achieving two goals. The first one is to understand California housing. In order to achieve the first goal, we might first build a predictive model that can fairly accurately predict housing price in California. While the most influential predictors (feature selection) are the key to a high prediction rate, the most predictive features are important to identify structural inequalities that cause living conditions to be extremely polarized in California. For example, we see affluent places like Beverly Hills, and not too far away there is Skid Row, a place that has the largest stable populations of homeless people in the United States. However, the goal of the project is not to build a super accurate prediction model, but to understand the housing market and to identify structural inequalities. So unsupervised learning algorithms like clustering, anomaly detection, or even neural networks will be considered. The way to present our understanding of California housing should be through creative, yet informative plots. The second goal is to invent a simple algorithm that can recommend Californians a neighborhood to live in provided with their preferences. I consider a “Partial success” for our project as building a predictive model to predict housing prices in California and creating some plots to merely demonstrate some characteristics of the California housing market. A “Partial success” is either achieving one goal from above or achieving both but in a less interesting manner.

Resources Required:
What particular risks might be applicable for your project?
